[SDK-1881] New Angular quickstart (#9368)
auth0/docs: articles/quickstart/spa/angular-next/01-login.md

---
title: Login
description: This tutorial demonstrates how to add user login to an Angular application using Auth0.
budicon: 448
topics:
  - quickstarts
  - spa
  - angular
  - login
github:
    path: 01-Login
contentType: tutorial
useCase: quickstart
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD002 MD034 MD041 -->

> <%= include('../_includes/_getting_started', { library: 'Angular', callback: 'http://localhost:4200', returnTo: 'http://localhost:4200', webOriginUrl: 'http://localhost:4200', showLogoutInfo: true, showWebOriginInfo: true, new_js_sdk: true, show_install_info: false }) %>

Reviewer: Is this still "angular" or should we call it "angular 2" ?

Author: The former, the official name is Angular.

The `angular2` part still appears in the URL though; for publication at GA, I would like to redirect `/spa/angular2` to just `/spa/angular`.

In fact, if you agree, I can just put this new quickstart at that location now then put the redirect in later.

## Install the Auth0 Angular SDK

Run the following command within your project directory to install the Auth0 Angular SDK:

```bash
npm install @auth0/auth0-angular
```

The SDK exposes several types that help you integrate Auth0 with your Angular application idiomatically, including a module and an authentication service.

> ### Register and configure `AuthModule`

Reviewer: I couldn't find anything on the style guide about using code formatting on a header, but I'd avoid this (doesn't look great if you check the deployment)

```suggestion
### Register and configure the AuthModule
```

Author: Hmm yeah I know what you mean. What about instead of using the type name we expand to:

> Register and configure the authentication module

WDYT?

Reviewer: Yes, that works as well 👍

> The SDK exposes a module that contains the components and services that we expose now or in the future. Import this module into your application module so that our components and services can be accessed through the dependency injection framework:

Reviewer: The first sentence reads a bit confusing. Also, I'm not sure we should be using "our" outside of "recommendations". See https://github.com/auth0/docs/blob/master/STYLEGUIDE.md#voice.

```suggestion
The SDK exports a module with the components and services used to perform the authentication. Import this module into your application module so that they can be accessed through Angular's dependency injection framework:
```

Author: Like it!

```javascript
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { AppComponent } from './app.component';

// Import the module from the SDK
import { AuthModule } from '@auth0/auth0-angular';

@NgModule({
  declarations: [AppComponent],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,

    // Import the module into the application, with configuration
    AuthModule.forRoot({
      domain: 'YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN',

>       clientId: 'YOUR_AUTH0_CLIENT_ID'

Reviewer: I believe we should explain include how to pass the callback URL here

Author: Sure. I removed it based on the defaulting of that value but can easily add it.

    }),
  ],

  bootstrap: [AppComponent],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

We use the [`forRoot()` pattern](https://angular.io/guide/singleton-services#the-forroot-pattern) to configure the module, which takes the properties `domain` and `clientId`; the values of these properties correspond to the "Domain" and "Client ID" values present under the "Settings" of the single-page application that you registered with Auth0.

<%= include('../_includes/_auth_note_custom_domains') %>

> 

Reviewer: here is where I'd add an include that talks about callback URLs, how they can be added to the allowed list on the dashboard, and how to pass that option to our SDK. While the sample can use a default, the users should understand this value can be customized if required.

Author: We have those includes at the top of the quickstart, which is standard for the articles. Can definitely show how to customize it though, as per previous comment.

:::panel Checkpoint
Now that you have imported `AuthModule`, run your application to verify that the SDK is initializing correctly and that your application is not throwing any errors related to Auth0.
:::

## Add Login to Your Application

> The Auth0 Angular SDK gives you tools to quickly implement user authentication in your Angular application, such as creating a [login](https://auth0.com/docs/login) button using the `loginWithRedirect()` method from the `AuthService` service class. Executing `loginWithRedirect()` redirects your users to the Auth0 Universal Login Page, where Auth0 can authenticate them. Upon successful authentication, Auth0 will redirect your users back to your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Auth0 Angular SDK gives you tools to quickly implement user authentication in your Angular application, such as creating a [login](/login) button using the `loginWithRedirect()` method from the `AuthService` service class. Executing `loginWithRedirect()` redirects your users to the Auth0 Universal Login Page, where Auth0 can authenticate them. Upon successful authentication, Auth0 will redirect your users back to your application.
```

```javascript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';

// Import the AuthService type from the SDK
import { AuthService } from '@auth0/auth0-angular';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-login-button',
  template: '<button (click)="auth.loginWithRedirect()">Log in</button>'
})

> export class AuthButtonComponent {

Reviewer: The `@Component` part tells me this is a login button. The `AuthButtonComponent` below, however, tells me this is a "generic auth0 SDK enabled component". 

If I check React's, they are using `LoginButton` here. I'm not sure if there's an angular convention we are following with the naming of these but would be good to use a similar name. e.g. login instead of auth.

Edit: After scrolling a bit further, I see that you are re-using the same component for both login/logout actions. That's fine then 👍

Author: Yes, I went through the same train of thought. The selector is an oversight though, I'll change it to `app-auth-button`.

  // Inject the authentication service into your component through the constructor
  constructor(public auth: AuthService) {}
}
```

:::panel Checkpoint
Add the `AuthButtonComponent` component to your application. When you click it, verify that your Angular application redirects you to the [Auth0 Universal Login](https://auth0.com/universal-login) page and that you can now log in or sign up using a username and password or a social provider.

> Once that's complete, verify that Auth0 redirects you to your application using the value of the `redirectUri` that you used to configure `AuthModule`.

Reviewer: 🤔 🤔 🤔 🤔 
This is not explained above in the configuration section.

Author: Nope, an oversight - based on previous comments, I'll add `redirectUri` in

:::

![Auth0 Universal Login](https://cdn.auth0.com/blog/universal-login/lightweight-login.png)

<%= include('../_includes/_auth_note_dev_keys') %>

## Add Logout to Your Application

> Now that you can log in to your Angular application, you need [a way to log out](https://auth0.com/docs/logout/guides/logout-auth0). You can create a logout button using the `logout()` method from the `AuthService` service. Executing `logout()` redirects your users to your [Auth0 logout endpoint](https://auth0.com/docs/api/authentication?javascript#logout) (`https://YOUR_DOMAIN/v2/logout`) and then immediately redirects them to your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you can log in to your Angular application, you need [a way to log out](/logout/guides/logout-auth0). You can create a logout button using the `logout()` method from the `AuthService` service. Executing `logout()` redirects your users to your [Auth0 logout endpoint](/api/authentication?javascript#logout) (`https://YOUR_DOMAIN/v2/logout`) and then immediately redirects them to your application.
```

Here is a modified version of the `AuthButtonComponent` component above that uses both `loginWithRedirect()` and `logout()`, as well as checking the authentication state using the `isAuthenticated$` observable:

```javascript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AuthService } from '@auth0/auth0-angular';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-logout-button',
  template: `
    <button 
      *ngIf="(auth.isAuthenticated$ | async) === false"
      (click)="auth.loginWithRedirect()">
        Log in
      </button>

    <button 
      *ngIf="auth.isAuthenticated$ | async"

>       (click)="auth.logout({ returnTo: 'http://localhost:4200' })">

Reviewer: Let's mention briefly what this `returnTo` property is. 

```suggestion
      (click)="auth.logout({ returnTo: 'http://localhost:4200' })">
```

Author: Your suggestion doesn't do anything though, did you want to suggest some text or shall I go ahead and think of something?

Reviewer: No, the suggestion is not supposed to be there. Probably I was 😴

        Log out
      </button>`
})
export class AuthButtonComponent {
  constructor(public auth: AuthService) {}
}
```

:::panel Checkpoint

> Add a button that logs the user out to your application. When you click it, verify that your Angular application redirects you the address you specified as one of the "Allowed Logout URLs" in the "Settings" and that you are no longer logged in to your application.

Reviewer: Actually, we've modified the existing button. So there's no new button. Can we rephrase this first sentence a bit? e.g. telling that now if they were previously logged in, they will be able to log out

:::

## Show User Profile Information

> The Auth0 Angular SDK helps you retrieve the [profile information](https://auth0.com/docs/users/concepts/overview-user-profile) associated with logged-in users quickly in whatever component you need, such as their name or profile picture, to personalize the user interface. The profile information is available through the `user$` observable exposed by the `AuthService` service. Take this `Profile` component as an example of how to use it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Auth0 Angular SDK helps you retrieve the [profile information](/users/concepts/overview-user-profile) associated with logged-in users quickly in whatever component you need, such as their name or profile picture, to personalize the user interface. The profile information is available through the `user$` observable exposed by the `AuthService` service. Take this `Profile` component as an example of how to use it:
```

```javascript
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AuthService } from '@auth0/auth0-angular';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-user-profile',
  template: `
    <ul *ngIf="auth.user$ | async as user">
      <li>{{ user.name }}</li>
      <li>{{ user.email }}</li>
    </ul>`
})
export class UserProfileComponent {
  constructor(public auth: AuthService) {}
}
```

The `user$` observable contains sensitive information and artifacts related to the user's identity. As such, its availability depends on the user's authentication status. Fortunately, the `user$` observable is configured so that it only starts to emit values once the `isAuthenticated$` observable is true, so there is no need to manually check the authentication state before accessing the user profile data.

:::panel Checkpoint

> Verify that you can display the `user.name` or [any other `user` property](https://auth0.com/docs/users/references/user-profile-structure#user-profile-attributes) within a component correctly after you have logged in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that you can display the `user.name` or [any other `user` property](/users/references/user-profile-structure#user-profile-attributes) within a component correctly after you have logged in.
```

## Install the Auth0 Angular SDK

Run the following command within your project directory to install the Auth0 Angular SDK:

```bash
npm install @auth0/auth0-angular
```

The SDK exposes several types that help you integrate Auth0 with your Angular application idiomatically, including a module and an authentication service.

### Register and configure `AuthModule`

The SDK exports a module with the components and services used to perform the authentication. Import this module into your application module so that they can be accessed through Angular's dependency injection framework:

```javascript
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { AppComponent } from './app.component';

// Import the module from the SDK
import { AuthModule } from '@auth0/auth0-angular';

@NgModule({
  declarations: [AppComponent],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,

    // Import the module into the application, with configuration
    AuthModule.forRoot({
      domain: 'YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN',
      clientId: 'YOUR_AUTH0_CLIENT_ID',

>       redirectUri: window.location.origin

Reviewer: given this https://juristr.com/blog/2016/09/ng2-get-window-ref/ that you shared earlier, should we remove this line or at least inject the service privately instead of using the global?
Note that below for returnTo (logout) you are using localhost:4200 instead of this

Author: You can't inject anything at this point so I would be in favour of removing it, considering we also default it in the SDK.

Author: Done.
